[Music]
imagine
that you were born and raised
on a first nations reservation in the
united states and canada
some of you watching this i have many
fans from europe have viewers around
you know i have more viewers in europe
than i do in canada let's just be honest
here all right
you may not have a clear notion of what
a reservation is or what that means
suppose you were born raised on a kind
of compound
where from birth you're told that your
people
are sovereign there that your people
constitute
the government there but everyone knows
it isn't really true
everyone knows there's this other
government that gives you your driver's
license
there's this other government that
controls the schools especially the
universities if you want to go to
university if you want to have a group
that sets all the standards including
you know
something you see right away as a child
how the highways work
you know your so-called sovereign
reservation doesn't have its own system
of stop signs
doesn't have its own traffic lights
doesn't have its own idea for how
you know the standard should be for the
electrical voltage when you plug in
a lamp now this is when you're a child
this is what you notice if you're a
child
you go on vacation in europe you know oh
the street signs are different here oh
when you plug in the lamp
the plug is different right from a
child's perspective that's sovereignty
that's being a separate country oh
people say on this reservation
that we have sovereignty that in some
sense we have self-determination that we
have
our own government that we're our own
country it's broadly speaking the case
in both the united states
it can't and yet there's this other
sense in which it's not really true and
now
ask yourself growing up in that
circumstance
would you want your own children to go
to
the best university in the united states
of america
or canada respectively would you want
them to have access
to the best education the same education
that wealthy white people
have access to or would you say no
i would prefer to have sovereignty and i
would prefer to have my child grow up
only being able to go to school and go
to university here
on this reservation on this plot of land
on this tiny country
on this microscopy because that means so
much to me that i'm willing to lose
access
to that university system
medical care so what if it's your
grandparents your grandparents are
getting older and older
they're needing more and more attention
from doctors do you
feel that the best thing for your future
and the future of your people the future
of your tiny country of your reservation
is say look we need to close the door
once and for all
on having access to those hospitals
in principle or theory the best
hospitals in america the best hospitals
in canada the same hospitals that white
people use
we need to rely entirely on our own
hospitals that are staffed by people
educated in our own universities
to be our doctors and nurses so that we
have sovereignty
people don't want to think seriously
about what sovereignty means
and these concepts sovereignty rights
they're regarded as self-evidently good
things
they're regarded as if they only bring
with them advantages
and not disadvantages as if they don't
bring with them
you know serious responsibilities that
have serious consequences to people
involved
i just want to say this i studied at
first nations university of canada
if you can't guess from the name that is
canada's
one and only attempt to have a
university that is sort of
by and for indigenous people indigenous
languages indigenous culture
indigenous politics now i'm simplifying
slightly shout out to anyone who might
be watching this video from blue quills
blue quills college
uh well there was another one red crow
college there there were a couple other
tiny attempts to have little
uh first nations colleges and
universities across canada i could i
could tell you about those too
it's something that really interested me
my point is i was on the only example in
canada of a large
well-funded university that was
supposedly by and for
indigenous people now when you say
well-funded
what do you mean again sovereignty it's
really a distraction here it's really
using the very misleading
of course that university is paid for by
white canadian
taxpayers and of course it should be i
mean if we're one country
this is the reality and we should do
much better we should provide them with
much better
university education but already this is
starting to get at interesting questions
of well do you really want to have a
segregated
system of university education do you
want them to have separate quote-unquote
separate but equal universities
or do you want them to have access to
the same universities we do and if you
give them a choice
what percentage of them will choose the
segregated system as opposed to choosing
the best system
i can repeat this for health care right
like even if the hospitals available to
them on a segregated basis are just
slightly worse
what percentage of them will choose to
instead put their grandparents into a
white people's
hospital to be brutally honest with the
world here if we start to have
segregated healthcare
and a segregated education system and
then you can also flip that around
i was a white person who chose
to go into their education system
it's so incredibly rare that many people
in that system
insisted that i must be of first nations
ancestry and i i know i don't look it
but if you spend some time with these
people the majority of them
don't look like it either that's the
reality in 2021 you can't really
judge based on appearances because so
many of them are the product of
generation after generation of
inter-marriage and so forth
and in many cases some of them didn't
look so different from europeans to
begin with when europeans
first arrived it's a very subtle
difference in facial features so there
were people there who assumed an
assistant i had to say like no look i
have no connection in terms of my
bloodline of this
i was a guy who had been living in
cambodia and decided to shift gears and
get involved first nation language first
politics um so this is a this is that
aggression
but the point of the aggression to say
is having spent time around a lot of
people who cared about this
passionately um i have
never once heard or seen anyone
talk through seriously the implications
of sovereignty
for first nations people and the word is
used constantly it's it's
wallpaper for political discussions of
first nations people and and really it's
not just
wallpaper it's papering over
big holes in the wall it's like oh we do
have this history of genocide we do have
terrible problems just in terms of like
equality in the most
basic sense economic equality or what
have you we do have problems with
who does and doesn't have access to
clean drinking water you know there's
all kinds of like unbelievably terrible
things with the situation for
our first nations people but we can just
paper over that
by saying that they have sovereignty
isn't sovereignty
an interesting concept to use instead of
equality
right instead of equal opportunity
instead of even equal rights
or instead of you know talking about
equality with other measures
like oh yeah their their actual quality
of life is just
how about equality of representation how
about how many seats in parliament how
many seats in the senate even within a
province like saskatchewan where they're
of the population or 10 of the
population is indigenous what percentage
of the people in government are
indigenous
what percentage of doctors and
architects are
first nations people like talking about
equality says oh no
no sovereignty this kind of profoundly
dishonest use of sovereignty becomes the
wallpaper
that you know really distracts us from
the questions of
of what has happened in the past what is
happening now and what should happen
in the future tremendously important
questions let's just say when i was on
that campus
i never heard anyone talking about
sovereignty seriously and i'll
explain just a moment what i mean by
talking about sovereignty seriously talk
about what i mean in parts
i never saw a youtube video from anyone
i never read an article
like on paper i never saw any discourse
about what sovereignty would really mean
if we really give it to them and they
really take it
and here's what it would really mean
vatican city
andorra san marino
there's a tiny tiny little country in
the south of france
famous for its casinos monaco
and the cote d'azur that sovereignty
that's
sovereignty it would mean that when you
looked at the map of canada
there would be a series of micro states
that were sovereign and just like
andorra if you've never heard of andorra
before you can google it real
quick by the way okay just like andorra
just like vatican city they would have a
seat
at the united nations and no matter how
tiny they were even if they were as tiny
as andorra as
as tiny as vatican city and canada has a
lot of land to give away and if you look
at the map
really they could be huge in terms of
territory but the population would be
tiny there's not that many people
involved here okay but even if you give
them a lot of land all right that
micro state would have a vote at the
united nations equal to canada
it would have a vote at the united
nations equal to india with
more than a billion people and guess
what the vatican
has that right and the vatican uses that
to great effect the vatican lobbies
for consider a conservative christian
perspective even though we all know
there are many ways in which the vatican
isn't a real country there are many ways
in which no offense
and dora isn't a real country i mean
andorra doesn't have to maintain an army
the same way other countries do but if
you really
give first nations people sovereignty
if they really have their own countries
no matter how tiny
and no matter how nearly symbolic their
military might be because probably they
would not
take their limited tax dollars and pour
it into building up a mighty military to
defend a tiny state that's enclosed by
canada
on all sides right they would lose
access
forever to the benefits of being a
canadian
citizen because they would not be
canadian citizens anymore
they would be members of their own
sovereign state now
um you guys if you've heard of this
you've probably heard of it because of a
few
american gangster movies it's an
interesting
footnote in history that vatican city
has its own banks
right and those banks are not governed
by italy and they're not governed by
france or anyone else
they only answer to the pope because
they have their own government they're
sovereign
so in theory they can be as corrupt as
they want to be they can be as
criminals they want to be they can be
involved in all kinds of international
banking transactions that other
countries banks wouldn't engage in
let's put this away if you think swiss
banking is corrupt
vatican city is able to take on the
contracts
they're able to go places that the swiss
would fear to tread
right ultimately switzerland has a
democracy they have a government that
the
the economic side of things has to
answer to right
um in reality i don't think the scale
of illegal banking and black market
economics
in vatican city is so tremendous as
people think it is
uh there was one particular gangster a
real historical figure still alive and
still giving interviews
there was one american gangster who was
a courier
for vatican city and who was personally
friends with one of the popes
during his lifetime and did favors for
them and he
personally got involved in the making of
several hollywood movies
he's credited in different ways but he
met and spoke with the people who wrote
and directed those movies and actually
he was an actor in several of them too
playing small parts
i think to recognize and reward him for
his role and kind of adding authenticity
to american gangsters because of this
one guy
we now have this view of the corruption
of the vatican city
banking industry as if it dwarfs
switzerland as if it dwarfs hong kong
you know and i
i just say i'm very skeptical about that
this is one of the effects of
of hollywood movies right um
however you know there's a seed of truth
here
right like there's a kind of necessary
warning
about what sovereignty means if you
grant
sovereignty to microstate within canada
everyone knows that the one thing
everyone talks about casinos and maybe
these microstates are famous for their
casinos what is uh surround in the
southern france
what is monaco famous for what is monte
carlo
famous for casinos right oh well other
countries make casinos illegal but
here's the small country that feels they
don't have a lot
a lot to lose and they become a casino
destination other microstates may be
famous for prostitution okay
well they can also do whatever they want
to on the internet they can do whatever
they want to
in banking they can do whatever they
want they can have their own stock
exchange they have their own stock
market
they can do all these things and they
don't answer to you
they don't answer to anyone but
themselves
because they are sovereign that's what
sovereignty means so if we are going to
pretend and we are going to sign
united nations declarations stating
that our indigenous people have
sovereignty that the solution that the
way out of our
history of genocide is to grant them
sovereignty autonomy and
self-government what you are talking
about
is secession now again we probably have
some some europeans
uh in the audience here and those of you
hey guys i can see most of the comments
the font is not so good today i gotta
say um
and we shout out to shout out to richie
shout out to another person named
richard shout out to moondog shout out
to everyone
uh if you want to hit thumbs up while
you're here guys it'll help more people
discover
the stock just discovered the live
stream joined the conversation while
it's still ongoing which is fun
it's nice to have stuff for me too you
know to to reply to you spontaneously
you know as i'm as i'm going here we
have a great question from the audience
why is his shirt so wet
this is june 28 uh 2021
and we don't just have a heat wave here
in victoria we've set a record
yesterday was the hottest day ever
recorded here
and i think today is again going to be a
record-breaking day i'm used to it i
used to live in cambodia
already mentioned i'm used to i think
it's a bit ridiculous but right now
there were government warnings and the
government like they shut down the
university they shut down a bunch of
public parks
say oh stay inside you're going to
collapse from heat exhaustion maybe
somebody will
um but yeah so right now we're recording
uh on
you know it's as hot as a normal day in
los angeles or south texas or something
i mean it's not
it's not cambodia hot but yeah it's um
it's a real it's a real issue oh we have
another great question from the audience
why does jj mccullough say the sound
so strangely he is from the genocidal
east coast of canada my accent i used to
get
compliments on this it's been a few
years now probably probably showing the
way
people's attitudes change i used to get
compliments all the time for people
i mean in real life not on the internet
real life people who talked to me who
who
complimented my accent and they they
said uh i remember
and these these women were not trying to
sleep with me they really weren't
flirting with me but i can remember
women saying
wow you sound like a movie star and i
can remember men
more often saying wow you sound like a
news broadcaster
and what i said back every time was
that's because i'm from
exactly the neighborhood in downtown
toronto
where all of the news broadcasters and
tv actors in canada come
from and so in the united states they
don't call it a toronto accent it's
normally called a great lakes
accent so i have a great lakes urban
accent and for no particular reason
this is also the accent and the way of
speaking that is over represented on
american news and i would say among
american movie actors it's over
represented
so my my style of pronouncing vowels
it's not represented in the united
states as a whole
this is not the way people talk in
georgia this is not the way people talk
in
texas the again you know actually if you
look at the map the united states it's
quite a small area of the united states
but it's a huge percentage of population
of canada just in this small area
because canada's very sparsely populated
country
so i have this i do have this
distinctive but very familiar
accent that people regard as standard or
default
for the united states canada but it's
really not and yeah um
within canada jj's accent is considered
the distinctively canadian accent
whereas my accent is again it's familiar
from watching news and tv
i point out actually sorry a good point
of this is my accent is not the new york
accent
a great indication of that how do you
pronounce the word
floor f-l-o-o
i say floor so this is the great lakes
standard accent
right the new york accent is flaw
they pronounce it like f-l-a-w flaw
there was a nail in the floor
right this is new york okay how do you
pronounce
church c-h-u-r-c-h church
standard new york accent choice
now let me ask you even if you watch the
news from new york city
even if you watch an action movie set in
new york city
will you hear people pronouncing the
word floor as flaw
you know i i would say today in 2021
probably not i think you mostly hear
this kind of standardized
uh great lakes accents so yeah that's
there's an intro sorry talking about uh
talking about cultural genocide um there
is there is something um
you know there's something uh
significant there so another great
question from moon dog shout out to moon
dog moondog
he says quote eisel have you read the
book disrobing the aboriginal industry
question mark
what do you think about her writings on
the revival first nations languages
so moondog i have never read that book
and i have never heard of that book i've
never seen the title before i can guess
something about it
you know from the title it's an
important issue that there's definitely
more than one
you know perspective on i think i'm
going to go on now to talk about
languages probably the next basically
it's the next thing i'm going to talk
about in some in some depth
and how that relates to questions of
sovereignty and why have sovereignty at
all
and questions about rights and why have
rights why does any of this mean what's
the point
all these concepts ultimately are means
to an end right like it's an instrument
held in human hands
to serve a particular purpose
sovereignty does not exist as an end in
itself
rights are not and itself has to be for
something right
and i've already pointed out there are
real disadvantages
to having sovereignty so if you are
really going to take on sovereignty
you know it has to be for a purpose um
you know in this same way you know first
nations activism of any kind
it really has to exist for a purpose it
has to
have motivations and outcomes that
they're pursuing
now i you probably guessed i'm
sympathetic to many of the objectives
when there are objectives
but i think i mean just respond to the
title of this book you mentioned
sometimes there are no objectives at all
so i knew a guy really sweet lovely guy
i really liked him as a person a first
nations guy
in um in saskatchewan
and you know i'm i'm not naming him for
a reason here i liked him i really did
like this guy as a person
but he was one of those guys he was a
chain smoker he was real thin
i don't know if he has a history of drug
addiction and alcoholism
but uh having spent time with him with
his man
and so on that's that was my impression
or my suspicion maybe he's just a chain
smoker who's real thin
and you know he's kind of hunched over
that is the kind of guy was but i really
liked him he was really
i personally liked him and you know he
wasn't a close friend of mine but i felt
it he was a friend of mine to some
extent lovely guy
and you know he started and okay okay
i'm gonna be honest here
i really wonder if he started doing this
because of me
when i knew him i would point and say
why is that stop sign in english why is
the no smoking sign in english
and you know i'd say look everyone knows
what the no smoking sign means like just
the symbol
like would it kill us as canadians would
it be so hard
to have the no smoking sign and then
have it increa
or in ojibwe to have a first nations
language have a native language below it
and you know like if you're a white
person you're not going to feel
oppressed by this you know oh yeah
there's it's a no smoking sign
you can have english also but it's not
like oh this is a totally new concept of
no smoking
right like would it be too much to ask
when we're in like the tiny little piece
of land
that is in theory sovereign that is in
theory first nations land and it's
supposed to represent them
couldn't the no smoking sign be in crete
um and you know again if you want to use
other native languages we have dna in
canada with some other languages that
are not necessarily going to be extinct
and you know now again obviously he
sympathizes with me he's on my side
but it was shocking and unfamiliar he'd
never heard people talking to him okay
talking to him and talking to many other
people there it seemed like everyone i
said this to
was very surprised and they never heard
anyone say this before maybe i'm wrong
maybe they were surprised and 10 years
earlier they heard someone like it's not
something people were commonly
saying anyway so a couple years after i
knew this guy um
something reminded me of him and i
googled his his name and it looked like
like maybe one year after we had that
conversation like not not a real long
time
but he started a a little political
movement a little micro political move
to try to get
public signage in the cree language now
it's totally possible that's something
he'd had on his mind for 10 years
and then meeting me and hearing me
complain about it you know i mean he got
motivated like i'm not taking all the
credit for
probably thinking oh is that maybe i you
know maybe i said that much
and um you know i remember at that time
i didn't know what came but i assumed it
in failure
i mean but this is an example that
doesn't cost the government millions of
dollars right this is
peanuts you know space program costs a
lot of money
invading afghanistan costs a lot of
money putting up no smoking signs
this is not a lot of money you know to
support these languages not going
extinct
but i remember the official excuse from
the government and this is so canadian
was oh well if we do it for one
indigenous language then we have to do
it for all
so whether you are in toronto or whether
you are in vancouver or whether you are
in
victoria you can go to a neighborhood
called chinatown
and there are all kinds of signs up put
up by the government
in chinese not from business owners by
the government and there are signs that
say no parking and there are signs that
say public parking one hour
and there are signs that give you the
name of the street in chinese
right because this is fun this
encourages tourism oh it's chinatown
the government put up street signs in
chinese and we're like proud of that
right we take pride in packaging and
promoting the chinese identity of
chinatown oh i'm sorry where's kree town
oh i'm sorry where's ojibwe town oh i'm
sorry where's den a town where's inuit
really
really oh oh well you know if we if we
do it for one native people we have to
do
you know so this is the state we're at
this is 2021
looking at genocide lately and looking
looking ahead to the the future
of these languages and of these
political questions so i can
take it in a few different directions
now i mean
i'll speak briefly about j.j
mccullough's own video some of you will
be here for that reason
by the way it's great it's great having
you guys here obviously it's a totally
unplanned video 31 people in the
audience
if we can get 31 thumbs up like if more
of you hit the thumbs up button
more people will join the conversation i
can respond to some more questions
comments
um and also uh
all right that's not that i was just
gonna say look 24 minutes into the
broadcast
you can change your mind later if you
give it the thumbs up now and you decide
this is later you can take the
thumbs up back
and also you can change your mind and
give it a thumbs down i'm totally
totally in favor people can come in here
and disagree with everything they have
to say and to themselves but i think if
you hit thumbs up now
it helps more people discover the
broadcast well we are delving into this
shadow band area of political discourse
which it certainly
is here on youtube had quite a series of
videos
lately that are banned on youtube
incidentally all right look
jj mccullough plays a very strange game
with his public messaging here on
youtube
he makes intentionally
political statements that members of his
audience
are free to interpret any way they want
to his video
only the first half of it is about first
nations the video you just put up today
called why can't
it's a failure
his video allows a conservative or
right-wing member of the audience to
listen to what he says
and then presume that his real point
his real conclusion is in agreement with
their own assumptions
or with their own agenda a centrist or a
liberal
or even quite a far left-wing person
could watch the same video
and come to the same sort of
self-deluded conclusion
that he's on our side and what he's
doing is not refusing
to take a position what he's doing is
very carefully positioning himself in a
studiously
ambivalent way and we use the word
ambivalent
with different meanings in english it is
more than one of
valence it's ambivalent
it's presenting the presenting the
audience
with a sort of striking and yet
ambivalent
you know political doctrine and then the
audience is free to take it one way or
the other
um i appreciate
that he finally came out and made a
statement on this at all i appreciate
that he came out and took a stand
and obviously in terms of what he says
explicitly
there are things there that are to be
praised just in that he's willing to say
genocide is bad in 2021 it's not you
know a huge
leap forward or something but it's
interesting that now at this point in
history
he's come out and made this particular
statement that he's made
he does not comment on whether or not
this concept of sovereignty
being applied to first nations is a good
thing or a bad thing he does not comment
on
what the implications of that are
short-term or long-term
he does not comment on the implications
of this concept of
of rights and how it would apply to them
what that would really mean it was
taken seriously he states that the
conservative party which he's a member
of
opposed canada signing this u.n
declaration
that in theory commits canada taking the
course of granting sovereignty rights
and self-determination
to native people he doesn't say that he
agrees
with the conservative party he doesn't
say and the conservative party were
right and that it would avert terrible
problems now in the future
and you know a recurring problem not
just with him but i feel with all
conservatives
is that he does not make any statement
about what is the future
we want or desire what is the end point
that we are
moving towards now with that having said
he does
say some critical things about uh
different delusions
we had about what the endpoint should be
in the past there are some positive
things we said with the video
i i i would not summarize the history of
first nations at all in the same way he
does doesn't mean i'm offended by it it
doesn't even mean that it's like
factually wrong but no i'm not entirely
comfortable
sitting through the way in which he
summarizes the history of colonialism
genocide
and government policy falling after
nevertheless an educational video and it
is
jj mccullough taking a stand on an issue
that up to this point
he's been loath to take any um
any clear stand on all right now you
know
talking about the future that way really
matters
i mean talking about what is desirable
what is the end state we're moving
towards okay
so bring this back to sovereignty give
the example of hobima
alberta so i'm just going to type that
in
so you guys can google it if you don't
know where i'm going so habima alberta
plenty of land it's this is not some
tiny island it's not some case would be
really difficult
for the government of canada to draw a
circle around it
and create a separate country there's no
question
this is this is a viable solution oh
sorry
shouldn't say it's a solution it's an
option it's it's possible
all right what situation do you want to
be in 100 years from now
do you want the people of hobima alberta
and this by the way i'm saying ho bema
because actually there are several
different
first nations reservations clustered
around it it's not jurisdictionally all
that simple
but you could make it simple you can
change the legal situation do you want
them to have their own parliament
do you want them to have their own
democracy do you want them to have their
own hospitals
do you want them to have their own
universities
do you want those universities to be
taught
in the cree language in an indigenous
first nations language
do you want children to be going to
school in the native language do you
want them to be learning
math and science
in the native language do you want to
have for the first time in the history
of the world a biology textbook
printed in that language do you want
them to be able to study biology in
their native language
and then go to a university where they
train to become a nurse in their native
language and then they're employed
in a university with that language is
that the end point
we're moving towards now if you look at
other contested cases of sovereignty in
the world um
in southeastern spain still to this day
there is an ongoing political struggle
for catalan independence people say
catalonia
that was referred to in more than one
way there were people who would say with
absolutely no hesitation that the future
they want for catalonia
is to have universities where the
catalan language is spoken where
instruction in schools is in catalan
where children grow up with this is
their identity this is their language
that they want in this sense a
completely separate country with its own
tradition now to my knowledge if you
poll them with that question
it's not an overwhelming majority if you
get into some of those hard questions
that catalan independence it's not some
kind of open and shut case where 99
of the catalans want independence there
are a lot of catalans who have a
different view of it or
want to take a middle path and say well
we can be we can be like quebec
is within canada and have a special
status within spain but you know there
are people who want to take a middle
course on that
but there's no doubt if you talk about
who are the supporters of the catalan
independence movement
and many of them resent having to learn
spanish they feel spanish is a useless
language or that it's inferior and that
the spanish literature isn't worth
reading
and they would really prefer to have
catalan language now
all right i care about all these issues
if you google my name
plus catalan you're gonna find evidence
that i've studied the catalan language
myself
okay briefly to a very shallow and
limited extent
guess what there's evidence on the
internet of that okay
um the catalan language
is very similar to french
the idea that there's something really
distinctive
and really important about preserving
catalan as a language under itself
and catalan literature and so on as
opposed to
reading the same literature in french or
the same literature in spanish
it's a difficult delusion to sustain
all right just because the languages are
so
closely related now some of you you know
some of you may be able to relate to
this and some of you may not in eastern
europe
one of the sources of constant hostility
and tension is that some people feel
that a language like ukrainian really is
a separate language with its own history
and its own literature and its own
destiny right but a lot of people feel
that these eastern european slavic
languages whether ukrainian or any of
its neighbors
that really they are not different
enough from russian
to be worth taking seriously in this way
that there is no merit in
sustaining what's really just a slightly
different dialect or a slightly
different
way of speaking russian
within japan
there are dialects of japanese
that from an outsider's perspective are
a totally different language
like they're so phonetically different
from
standard japanese so phonologically
different and so
they are really different they have
mutual incomprehensibility
right and you have to ask are you
committed
to preserving this separate language
within japan and here obviously
sovereignty is not an issue here you're
not talking about a separate
country or are we going to accept that
in the future there's really
one dialect of japanese that it's one
language and that that's the future of
japan
and that maybe there isn't something
special or worth preserving
about this dialect within japan even if
it has thousands of years
of history and it may have some of its
own literature but people can read that
literature in translation
they can read it translated or even just
transcribed
into uh into modern standard japanese
now it's very hard for people to deal
with these
kinds of questions when it's their own
ethnicity when it's their own
language okay how about israel
how about palestine how about the gaza
strip
how about ireland all right so let me
say something to you
deeply shocking if you're irish
if the irish people continue to speak
english
there's no reason for them to be a
separate country from england
what's the point okay how about
scotland scottish independence is still
something that polls are taken about and
they've had referenda about it sorry
sorry they've had referendums
about it in english the plural of
referendum is referendums not referenda
they've had referendums about they'll
have more of them what is the point
of giving sovereignty to scotland and
having a separate country
if they're just going to speak english
right
and what are you doing if you put up a
wall
between scotland and england you're
saying hey every child in scotland has
to go to school in scotland and you have
to go to university in scotland you have
part of our education system
you have to go to our hospitals if you
commit a crime you go to our courts and
you go to our prisons not theirs
right and if everyone's speaking the
english language
you know what is it that you're trying
to preserve or promote what
really is the point of having
sovereignty now in ireland
some people some see the future of
ireland
100 years from now as not being
an english-speaking colony right they
see the future of
ireland precisely as being the
preservation
promotion and promulgation of their
indigenous language that their
indigenous language their indigenous
identity and that literature and that
cultural tradition
that is the justification for
sovereignty right
but i ask you today in ireland is that
10 of the population
is that 20 or what and i'm not i'm not
saying what percentage population
have a passing acquaintance with the
indigenous language but what percentage
of the population of ireland
actually read a newspaper in the
indigenous language or have even read
one book in the last five years in that
language a
very i'm not going to claim the
percentage a very large percentage
of the population of ireland today drag
their feet
through the process of getting a basic
smattering in the native language in
their
in their school system as children and
then never use it again
you know they're kind of oh yeah right
the lyrics are the national anthem
there's some symbolic presence for the
language right so just say this is
something that has
deep and disturbing implications for
everyone involved
now i want to ask so look i am i'm open
to the possibility with hobima alberta
they have enough land
they have enough population they have a
terrible history and their current
situation is terrible
we can do it we can make hobina alberta
into the next micro state and they can
have their own seat at the united
nations and they can have their own army
and their own police force and their own
courts and their own prison and they can
pay their own taxes to their own
government and elect their own
representatives
they can do it you know tiny tiny
countries within europe do it there are
all these examples of microstates
within europe and then they can be
responsible for their own sewage system
and their own electricity
lines and everything else right
but if they don't
speak their own language what is the
rationale for that
what is the reason for putting up that
wall
and taking on board all those
disadvantages of becoming a foreign
country right and you have to ask
yourself is it just
racism like do the people
of ireland feel
that their genetic identity is different
enough from the english
that they should have a nation state
just on that basis
for me racism will never do it i don't
think racism justifies it i just
fundamentally
do not think that that makes sense right
there has to be some meaning
and i said this before sovereignty is a
means to an end
it's a means to accomplishing something
right there has to be a purpose
to sovereignty and if the purpose is
just racism right
i don't relate to arguments in favor of
of sovereignty
and i'm also not supposing that this is
some very easy opening
decision for the people of catalonia or
for the people of
israel or the people of ireland or what
have you uh and
and right now it's very much a question
for the people of ukraine
i this dropped i don't know how this
drops off the news it's one of the
greatest military crises of the last
century you know in
france and germany and everyone else in
western europe should be deeply involved
in it but everyone seems to want to
pretend
that the invasion occupation and vision
of ukraine is business as usual or
something it's it's a deeply disturbing
example
and language politics and identity
politics and questions of
sovereignty they're they're deeply you
know deeply involved okay i'm just gonna
pause one sec to you
uh look at your your comments guys
okay so so richard i see you have a
series of questions here
okay so richard says that would add so
much depth and significance to the north
american
culture that is dwarfed by every other
continent
so look richard you're hinting at a
really interesting question that i have
covered on my youtube channel a long
time ago
you know when german tourists come to
canada
they want to see first nations culture
they want to see native american culture
indigenous culture
it feels good they want and they pay to
see it they want to see performances
they want to see dances
right and you know like white canadians
don't think this way
what do you think they want to see like
do you think
german tourists want to come to canada
to see a second-rate imitation of
european culture
a second-rate imitation of american
culture
what culture have you got canada what
culture have you got that's
distinctively yours and no one else has
got and that you can be proud of
right and white canadians don't have
this attitude we're not proud of
you know first nations culture white
canadians have been engaged in a process
of
extinguishment towards their indigenous
culture they've forced assimilation
extinguishment of land claims and forced
integration and so on it's been this
assimilationist attitude
where white canadians have been raised
to think the greatest thing in the world
is to be a second-rate imitation of
european culture and then to some extent
what competes with that is the idea of
being a second-grade imitation of
american culture i mean sorry like i
grew up in toronto toronto has a hip-hop
scene
toronto was a reggae scene toronto is a
punk rock scene
but it's all derivative none of it is
canadian
i'm sorry but like the idea of canadian
rap music is a joke
like obviously it's a satellite to
american rap music and american culture
canadian rock and roll too i'm sorry it
doesn't have to be
yeah any of these examples canadian
country music
you know we do we do have canadian
countries but it's there is no canadian
culture of
country music it's a chapter of it's a
satellite to you know american culture
um so look you know it
is an interesting question but we're not
talking about a parallel universe or if
we could travel back in time
and make a different decision here all
right the reality of canada today and i
would say this for the reality of
the united states of america at least
the lower 48 states today like maybe
leaving hawaii is a slightly different
history or something
uh yeah let's leave it hawaii and alaska
i think that is significantly different
actually
but canada and the bulk of the united
states of america
we are not in a situation of having a
hybrid culture in the way that mexico
does
mexican culture is not the same as
spanish culture right and all of them
will tell you why
because it's a mesisto culture fi
someone's going to correct me i've never
studied spanish i'm probably
mispronouncing that name
it's a mixed culture but they have this
word for it that they regard positively
as mixed in
a positive sense right um
in canada and the united states we don't
have a
mixed culture we don't have a hybrid
culture of indigenous and european
influences
if you go to a mexican restaurant they
can explain to you
how mexican food is different from
spanish food
and it is it's different there is no
canadian food there isn't you can't go
to a canadian restaurant and have them
explain to you
how our cuisine is different from
british cuisine
because of the influence of our
indigenous people or because we
intermarried with our indigenous people
or appropriated their customs and habits
and their ingredients
it doesn't exist and i've got to tell
you if you're talking about the lower 48
states
of the united united states america
there is no american
cuisine in this sense right there is no
cuisine the americans can point to
in the same way so this is a very
one-sided
genocidal culture now again i think the
only exception you could probably talk
about
hawaiian culture in a different i think
hawaii is actually a counter example we
can talk about
mestizo culture so there's someone
someone who is himself mestizo
uh is correcting me and it's inevitable
hey guys number one for correct
pronunciation of pali
sanskrit chinese i've always
studied japanese too i've studied quite
a few languages but
never spanish whether or not i can
pronounce french worth a damn is also a
fascinating topic talk for another video
we'll see how much world french has this
channel right um
okay the situation we are looking at
is not one of having a hybrid culture
that's the product of that long
history of uh colonialism right we're
looking at a post-genocidal culture
right and where even if you go to the
res as someone usefully says in the in
the comments you go to the reservation
right
what are you looking at the vast
majority of first nations reservation
the people wear blue jeans and cowboy
hats
it's sorry i'm not saying the stereotype
many especially the older people that
listen to country music and wear cowboy
hats
there were younger people who wear
baseball caps and listen to hip-hop
music
of course they play the same video games
we do they live
in the modern world and they go to
school and apply for jobs the same as
everyone else
you know the extent to which they are
integrated into and of course
of course it's the product of a history
of forced assimilation right but you
know it's not the case that you can even
you can't even go to hobima
alberta and see some kind of
you know alternate culture alternate
society unless
it is a carefully staged performance now
i just give you one example of this um
what
you know touched me personally there
were a series of
i would say radical first nations
protests while i was
in saskatchewan and it was its own
little movement that
frankly started on facebook and
eventually petered out
um but i did sympathize with it i mean i
did it was uh
you know what what what do you say what
is the purpose of this movement to say
hey first nations people really matter i
mean ultimately that's kind of what they
were
saying you know and um they they were
kind of responding to what was
fashionable at that time on the internet
which was the flash mob
phenomenon nobody can remember flash
mobs this is 2021 so i think in the past
right
but they would share messages on on
facebook with one another
and this is also part of what makes it
interesting is until they showed up
and joined in the protest most of these
people you wouldn't be able to tell they
were first nations
they looked like and dressed like but
including their facial features many of
them
look like white people and and again
that's also part of why they thought
i was one of them and i have to say
again again no i'm i'm not indigenous
myself i'm not a native person
if i showed up in one of these events
but they would come together
at one place in one time and they would
play the drum
and they would chant in in their native
language this kind of traditional
music performance i forget along with
last 10 minutes or something it wouldn't
it wouldn't really disrupt like you know
should be like a shopping mall they come
together they do this
and they disperse this is like the flash
mob idea all right and it was it was a
powerful
and kind of harmless demonstration
you're saying hey you know we exist we
matter
we have our own political demands and
the government has been ignoring them
for decades they're going to keep on
ignoring you know it's just this kind of
message
you know and you know and also
aesthetically it was kind of beautiful
it was kind of nice yeah
so i went to one of these with my my
first wife
today my ex-wife you know one of those
and you know it is just kind of moving
and it's just kind of it comes together
you have this sound that fills the room
and so on
and everyone on the ground is chanting
and i said to her i'm studying the cree
language at that time
obviously i'm not remotely fluent in the
language but i've gotten to a level
where i've got the basics now
and i said to her nobody knows
the lyrics like
this may seem to you like a powerful
demonstration
of cultural continuity or kind of
political revival
but guess what this is the equivalent of
a bunch of us
coming together and deciding to
celebrate french heritage
but all of us are just chanting blah
blah blah blah
because none of us knows a single word
in the french language
all right like in reality this
demonstration it's demonstrating more
than one thing
it's demonstrating how far down the path
we are to
language extension because nobody here
can actually sing a song
in their own indigenous language now
why do i even say that that's partly
geography if you went up to the far
north of saskatchewan at that time you
could meet people who really spoke the
language
you could be people who could really
sing a song into a language and
they wore this is another thing about
the history of hybridity and
colonialism and genesis the language
wasn't completely extinct
almost without exception the people who
really spoke the language in the far
north
were christian fundamentalists they were
they were not just a little bit
christian they were
extremely christian and they read the
bible in translating to their native
language and preached in the native life
so again you might think the people who
speak the language are kind of the
natural
defenders of the cultural continuity and
heritage zone but no it's paradoxical
as so many things in uh in history and
and politics are
so all right a comment from edgy
intellect that's
suitably edgy quote i don't believe in
culture
the term as it's used today is an event
in the late 18th century in the
historical context of the emerging
nation state um
here's my counter argument to you edgy
intellect
culture is the cumulative mass
of all the questions we do not ask
ourselves
it is an accrued quantum
of assumptions um
[Music]
that we only have to defend when they're
violated
you know when you walk into a corner
store
to buy something you have a whole mass
of cultural assumptions and you don't
even question them or think of them or
assert them
but in some other country or you go into
a corner store here that's run by some
with very different cultural assumptions
all of a sudden you realize how much
this matters so i don't know how much
you've traveled
edgy intellect but the the more you
travel the more you live in
circumstances that challenge your
cultural assumptions
you will realize just how how real and
meaningful
and important this concept of of culture
is
um so give you one example
you go into a corner store that has a
cash register
right at the front by the door when you
go in and out
okay and the woman who's standing behind
the cash register
comes out and follows you and stares at
you
as you go from isle to aisle picking out
things you want to buy
in some cultures that's normal right
one reason that would be obviously the
fear of theft right
in in my culture that's totally
unacceptable
and anyone this happens people will
shout out and denounce and cuss out the
owner say look
i'm never coming back here and i'm
telling they'll even accuse them of
being racist or whatever you know i mean
like they'll be real
it can escalate the conflict that we
assume
deeply in this culture that i'm gonna
walk in and i'm gonna have the freedom
to stroll around and pick things off the
shelf and look at them and
you know and you could shoplift you
could steal
and quite a lot of theft and shoplifting
is tolerated
just because of this cultural norm that
in that shop you should be given your
space and you shouldn't be hassled
and you shouldn't have to answer any
questions as a as a customer and if you
have questions
you have to walk up to them not the
other way around like for the other
culture you know maybe
for for some other culture somewhere
maybe the assumption is hey i shouldn't
have to walk up and ask you you should
be standing here next to me
you know so no um
you know culture is this
cumulative unexamined mass of questions
we don't ask ourselves
if these assumptions built into a
situation and i again this is why i
don't say
belief right you don't even believe
you should be able to walk around the
the corner store this way or the
convenience store or the shop
it's not a belief it's not a creed it's
not it's not a political principle
right so yeah we we lean on and live
within culture in this way we inhabit
these uh
these these assumptions someone's
encouraging me to study spanish
imagine imagine how different my whole
life would be if
[Laughter]
[Music]
different politics different history
different options everything would have
been different if i'd gone into spanish
if i'd gone into portuguese too
um once in a while it crossed my mind
and as was just mentioned i briefly did
um uh i briefly did study catalan
so someone in the audience called david
says that he is catalan
and the dichotomy between spanish
spanish and catalan is getting greater
by the day
not because the language is suppressed
like france does to its indigenous
minority languages
but because of some intricate factors so
david i'm
i'm aware of that um i lived in a region
just over the border uh from spain in
what's called
french catalonia and we had different
groups who spoke catalina from different
centuries
which is interesting what's called
lingual isolates or linguistic isolates
um just means people are isolated so
they keep speaking the language the way
was spoken 300 years ago or something
this this happens it's a phenomenon that
happens all over the world uh to give an
example there were some germans
isolated within russia who kept on
speaking german the way it was
300 years ago or 500 years ago now i
forget because they were
they didn't have any contact with the
larger linguistic culture there this
phenomenon is fairly widespread
but this is what i would say if you go
back and read
pre-modern catalan literature so we
could call it renaissance literature i
don't really care what period
but if you go back and read catalan
literature that's from before the modern
era of the radio
and the cheapness of the printing press
producing newspapers
catalan is really not that different
from french
it is fundamentally just not that
different a language
so you know no i'm not saying this to
insult you
but you know with a language like cree
or ojibwe
there is a whole different philosophy of
life built into the language there
really is
it's profoundly philosophically
different and i can say this to you you
guys know i don't
um i don't glorify any form of book
learning i was you know this comes up
all the time with my girlfriend and
stuff i say look
i don't glorify reading aristotle i
don't glorify reading thucydides
i've got some books here that are really
great books i've got uh
sallust here with this horrifying color
i think we've got happy in here
oh no i don't appian is in the bedroom
oh no it's under the mic
sorry appian's off camera another
ancient ancient uh
roman author but look uh appian and
machiavelli are here under my microphone
can talk about how these books are
meaningful to me but i never
say if you read this book it's going to
be philosophically meaningful to
you too right i'm very skeptical about
that i'm very skeptical about what kind
of learning
is useful or or uh important to what
people
but i can tell you no matter who you are
if you really learn cree or you really
learn
ojibwe you really learn an algonquian
language it
is philosophically profoundly different
it's profoundly meaningful it's
profoundly interesting it'll change your
life
it'll change the way you think it'll
change the way you dream
you know learning a language like that a
totally
alien language from an alien language
family and thinking in those words and
the way the words connect to one another
and the meanings that are there and yes
of course it has its own poetry
and it has its own literature it has its
own mythology you know i
you know you can get into korean ojibwe
mythology these stories about magical
animals and things
i've read my share of it you know um and
yeah that
really is something profoundly
meaningful and it could be meaningful
for you and you and you in the audience
no matter who you are
saying i don't do that with aristotle
even though i'm a fan of aristotle i
think it's important for the right
people to read aristotle
i don't say that about thucydides you
know i don't say that about
everything or anything right and you
know my my girlfriend right now is
studying chinese and it's quite
hard work for her you know a completely
alien language like chinese it's also
rewarding in that way now to give a
really low
kind of down-to-earth example of that
though you know but but that's how
chinese comes into your life that way
you know um
recently there was a diplomatic struggle
between joe biden's representatives
and the representatives of xi jinping so
the united states and china
and i was able to watch that even though
there were subtitles in english
some actually some of the videos i
didn't have english translation
um some of it had something i was
english someone just add subtitles in
chinese
and you know the english translation
will never
really capture the mood and spirit and
in a low-level sense the philosophy
built into what they're
saying in chinese you know like there's
there's something there
even with some this is relatively
meaningless this is the government of
china
like saying to the united states hey
don't cross us we can
we can really you know we can really
make you regret it or something
but whoa there's something really
meaningful and really rewarding
you know about hearing that in chinese
and and
obviously you have to have the level of
education to appreciate what's what's
going on in chinese or whatever you know
um
can you have that experience with cree
today
can you have that experience with ojibwe
today can you have that experience with
mohawk or danny today
will you ever you know will there ever
be a situation
where a politician stands up and says
about the prime minister of canada or
could be a provincial
leader says about the premier that's in
canada that's the equivalent to being
the governor of the state
but stands up and in their own language
is denouncing and criticizing another
politician
and you've got the subtitles in english
and it's being broadcast
in the native language but where if you
study the native language you can
appreciate
something that's going on there you know
philosophically and emotionally that
there's
no no
for some for some countries in south
america that's totally easy to imagine
because their indigenous languages are
not that close to extinction
they have the numbers of people speaking
it they are elected representatives of
sonia
um i think an interesting contrast would
actually be new zealand
is it possible that in the future of new
zealand that the study of the native
language is rewarding and
fall in this way right but even to have
such a kind of humble
set of expectations or questions we're
talking about the native languages in
canada
it's very hard to see the way forward to
to
a situation that's just even that
positive where we're not
perpetually on the cusp of total
irretrievable
genocide and you know the disappearance
of the language the disappearance of the
culture
in every meaningful sense obviously it
has already disappeared from
politics and that's you know that's the
most important
thing to disappear from at all they do
not have a presence
in our parliament in our city halls
and so on and so forth you know they
have been silenced in the most important
way
possible uh for all these decades for
all these years for all these
all these uh centuries
so we get some more thanks guys thanks
for the contribution some more
intelligent comments about
uh catalonia and a question from lilac
cloud welcome back to the show lila
cloud has such a memorable name
i remember he or she went over there
because of this name uh lilacloud says
quote
do you think the canadian movement
interesting choice of words do you think
the canadian movement
should implement integration programs
for the indigenous people and
non-natives
okay so this brings us back to the
question of sovereignty and rights
in a in a big way right
okay immigration
do you think that people who immigrate
to canada from pakistan
have any respect for our indigenous
people and culture and language
whatsoever
have you met and spoken to some
pakistani immigrants about how they feel
about our
indigenous people how are you
do you think that immigrants from south
korea
have any respect for our indigenous
people or their natives
their language is pardon me our
indigenous people their
native languages native culture i think
there's any positive
connection there whatsoever take a look
with the south koreans there is one
interesting
footnote which is that some of them come
over as christian missionaries
and some of them go out to live with the
native people to preach
jesus to them i've spoken to one
of those people right how about
vietnamese
immigrants how about chinese immigrants
how about immigrants who just got off
the boat from
sweden somewhere in europe okay most of
these people come over
and they have a very clear notion of
what they want canada to be
for them and what the role of the
english language is in their lives
less often it might be the french
language it's very rare that people come
over here because they want to live in a
french language
context and they have absolutely no
sympathy and they have no positive
engagement whatsoever
and they tend to have an incredibly
negative set of attitudes and engagement
with
people okay if you give them
sovereignty then they can solve that
problem on their own territory
where they can say hey this is the
sovereign state of masquez or whatever
they want to call it
um you know they might use a completely
original name they might use the name
that's already used for their
tribe or for their uh reservation right
whatever they choose
but again i'm not talking about one
microstate throughout canada you could
have a bunch of microstates the same way
that throughout the european union
they're a bunch of microstates and then
they could say look we get to decide
whether you're here on a short-term work
permit whether you're here as a tourist
like what your legal status is here
or whether you're allowed to immigrate
and you know
if you had a requirement for immigrants
just to learn a 500 word vocabulary in
cree or ojibwe of course that would
transform everything
change everything in canada and if you
had that requirement for the last 200
years
everything would be different today and
of course if they had the ability to do
that on their own
territory say look if you want to live
here if you want to be part of our life
and society
you know naturally you're not going to
require total fluency we don't require
total fluency in english
we have literally millions of people in
the united states and canada who come
here from korea and they just speak
korean their whole lives they never
learn english
come here from china come here from
pakistan whatever and they either speak
very minimal english
or never learning english dolls it's
very common
so obviously you're not going to be
expecting you know perfection from
people
but sure it would change everything if
you had
language requirements for immigrants and
if people regarded this as something
that they were proud of
this was something that's like hey you
know what canada is not like other
countries
you know canada is not just another
secondary
imitation of europe or a second-grade
invitation of some that happen united
there's something really special there's
something really distinctive here and we
get to be a part of it
even if it's by learning these these 500
words
you know in this language okay
um sovereignty comes at a price
sovereignty comes at a terrible
terrible price okay if you
really want to have a sovereign country
for the native people of canada
that means they've got to rely on their
own tax money it means they've got
they've got to build
their own universities and they've got
to say to their children no
you don't get to go to that university
you have to go to this
university it means they have their own
court system
means they have their own police it
means they have their own prison it
means they have their own
responsibilities and if you studied
political science
then you will be familiar with the
canard from first year political science
you might learn this in high school you
might learn at the university
that there is an important relationship
between rights
and responsibilities i think we learn
this concept so
early in life that we forget what that
relationship is
or why it matters at all it's the
easiest thing in the world
for the united nations to make a
proclamation on paper
saying that our native people have
rights
i think the whole concept of rights is a
really dangerous and self-defeating
distraction
okay
major city in the united states and
canada this is probably true in europe
too and most
you know most of the democratic world
most of the world that has elections and
newspapers
and you know the other kind of cultural
assumptions that come along with having
elections in newspapers that criticize
the government
okay in large parts of the world
there are no formal rights
granted to the inhabitants of the city
of new york
or to the inhabitants of the city of
toronto they don't get to stand up and
say hey
it's our human right that if we don't
want
a highway built there and we don't want
a train line built there
that we can prevent it you don't have a
right
you have a mayor you have a government
you have a democracy that can contend
these issues okay it is pretty common in
the world
that a higher level of government the
federal government or the state
government or the provincial government
that a higher level government wants to
build a highway
or wants to build a train line that
would be convenient
at a large scale at a national scale or
an international scale
but that there are local people who have
for some reason
right or wrong say no no no don't build
that highway don't build that
train line don't build that project okay
and they don't rely on rights
they don't rely on sovereignty they
don't claim that the city of new york is
sovereign
they don't claim that the city of new
york has an inalienable right they don't
rely on human rights
hey we have a human right to not have
a highway or a train line built here
okay
they have a mayor who can stand up
in the newspapers and stand up in his
own government
and who can argue the case and say no no
no
we have some really important set of
reasons why the highway should be over
there
and not over here and that's normal
politics
this is exactly what our indigenous
people
have been utterly lacking in the united
states
and canada for their entire history down
to and including today
many of my viewers are europeans as
mentioned
i have a lot of viewers from australia
and new zealand too so i know you may
not be able to write this
so he said okay i promise you people in
texas
know the name of the mayor of new york
they do people in california know the
name
of the mayor of new york city sometimes
they know the name of the mayor of
detroit
too because the mayor of detroit gets
into the news a lot right
do you think people in california
can name the leader of the lenape
do you think people in california can
name the leader
of the ojibwe any anyone just one
one leader for one group of native
people
who is ever on the news standing there
speaking on behalf of the issue of the
day even if it is something as trivial
as whether the highway is built here or
the train line is built there
okay do you see what a dangerous
distraction it is to speak in terms of
absolute rights
or absolute sovereignty that's not what
you need what you need
is a working political system all right
and
when i use the word working advisedly
because it's not going to be perfect
sometimes like you know the mayor of new
york may stand up and say there's no way
we can allow this highway to be built
you know what it's you know
what once the kind of public discussion
goes on and it's covered in the
newspapers
it's covered in the press you know what
it turns out that there are just a few
rich people
who own some property and their property
is going to be destroyed by building
this new highway
but really that's where the highway
needs to be really millions of other
people are going to benefit
and you know what maybe those rich
people have been paying donations to the
mayor you know like
this this is common again i don't know
when you whether you're in europe or
australia
you've probably heard some stories like
this one particularly it could turn out
that you know what once you do the
research once you really think about it
you know what
local democracy is not always right
maybe you know
on balance some people don't like it but
you know what we should build that
highway anyway or you know what we
should extend the train line
through that neighborhood whatever the
case may be right politics has
trade-offs
it has hard decisions right it has
compromise it has negotiations it is
public discourse and journalists in the
press
criticizing you politics does not
proceed on the basis of human rights
claims ever
ever it's a complete dead end it's a
complete cul-de-sac
it's completely counterproductive to
pretend native people have sovereignty
when they don't and pretend that they
have rights
over these things when they don't and
pretending more
is not going to solve the problem what
will solve the problem
is really giving them really granting
them their own mayors
really granting them their own
provincial premiers their own governors
their own state senators however you
want to think of it or put it
where they really have a voice and again
that voice is going to be
wrong sometimes and i think it's a very
telling
measure everyone in the united states of
america knew the name
kwame kilpatrick sorry if you're
european i realize you won't know this
name
i know if you're even canadians all knew
this guy's name kwame who was kwame
kilpatrick
he was the mayor of detroit what did he
accomplish
what did he even have conflict with the
federal government nothing he didn't
call me
anything great you know but he was a
powerful voice
on numerous trivial issues
of just being real of course there are
mclaughlin he didn't build the pyramids
he didn't accomplish anything great in
his time in office you know
he had his controversy you know everyone
in the united states of america knew
this guy
and they perceived him rightly or
wrongly
as a great leader for a great
representative for
[Music]
african-americans he's still alive
you know what i actually think that
history isn't over with climate coverage
you know what it's possible
it's possible he'll end up vindicating
his name and he'll be remembered as a
great
leader for detroit or great leader for
african-americans
i doubt it it's looking pretty bad in
terms of how the history books are going
to be written on
comic book patrick but at that time
before he went to prison
before he was kind of denounced and and
what have you
sure that's what kwame kilpatrick was
symbolically
and actually okay
we don't have one we don't have one
kwame kilpatrick for native americans
okay we have we haven't had one in the
united states
during my lifetime we haven't had one in
canada
during life and if you just look at the
map obviously there has to be more than
one
obviously you can't have one guy who
represents new york and california and
the whole
all native people in alaska and hawaii
both
right there is no tribune for them
right there is no seat in parliament
there is no seat in the senate there is
no mayor
for them there is no system of
government for them
and it's not an accident it's not
a coincidence it's a direct consequence
of
it is the direct legacy of a colonial
system of government
that aimed at quite intentionally their
extinguishment
their eventual disappearance